## Who Am I

My name is Jason Magri, and I'm currently finishing up my degree in Computer Science at SNHU. Overall, I've been working on becoming a computer scientist for a long time now, ever since I was in middle school. Back then, I started working on simple programs with helper programs, such as Ren.py. I started working on it a lot more seriously once I began working on my degree. I started the journey towards my degree at NHTI, pursuing an Associates in Animation and Graphic Game Programming. After completing my degree there, I got a job in my field. In addition to that, I decided to continue towards my Bachelor's in computer Science. As I was working full time, I determined that the best way to complete my degree was through SNHU. Thus, I began my journey towards my Bachelor's in computer science. Over the course of my classes at SNHU, I learned many things. I learned a lot about how to do testing, as this wasn't a primary topic at NHTI. I learned more about working with databases, such as MongoDB. I also learned how to work with OpenGL, in order to create visual objects from scratch. All of those things, and more, went into creating the projects that we'll see below.

## Informal Code Review

As part of my work in enhancing my projects for this portfolio, I did an informal code review. Although I have done code reviews before, I hadn't done one on my own code, so it was an interesting experience. [Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WxqrUq2FM9I&feature=youtu.be) is the result.

# Projects 

## Software Design and Engineering project: Medical testing software

This project is a mock version of a medical record software. I’m not sure when the full code was created, as I didn’t make the full software. The parts I created were made about a month ago, for CS-320. What I made for this code was the unit tests. I feel that the tests show that I’m aware of the purpose of the software, as well as the general design. The reason I feel this is because I need to know what is important to the software in order to know what to test. Ultimately this is why I included this artifact. As for improvements, I fixed a number of bugs in the software that were found by my tests. In addition to that, I also added in a few more tests and created a short document describing the program. At the end of the document, I have a full change list. 
As for the process of enhancing the project, I think that I learned a decent amount more about how to think about software. The reason for this is because, in order to write a document about how the software works, I had to think a lot about how it works. This was especially true because I didn’t write the initial software. That was also the biggest struggle. As I wasn’t originally familiar with how the software worked, I had to look into it in order to determine how it worked.
[Here](_updated_Milestone2.zip) is the file.


## Algorithm and Data Structures project: A Spoon

This project was my final for CS-330, the creation of a spoon with openGL. The reason that I chose this project is because of how openGL works. In order to create a visual object in OpenGL, every single one of its vertices need to be specified. For simple objects, like a cube, this isn’t that many, but for complicated objects, such as the spoon, this can easily go into the hundreds. In the class, we specified all of these in line. As you might guess, that looked very messy. As such, I used this as an opportunity to improve it by moving those to use more data structures that should make the code look much cleaner. Although I think most of the code is reasonably interesting, I think the most interesting parts to it are the algorithms used to move the camera around. As the object is displayed on the viewport, one does have to be careful with how the viewport is moved, in order to ensure that the object stays in view. Those weren’t what I was improving here, however. The improvements made here were the addition of the SpoonPointImport class, the AllTriangles text file, and the AllVertexes text file. The SpoonPointImport class pulls the vertices and triangles from those two text files and stores them in a Vector. Doing this cleans up the code significantly, as it takes all of the points out of the code, and into a more accessible text file. Overall, I think this does help to show more mastery over both Data structures, primarily from the addition, but also in general, and algorithms, this was primarily from the original work.
	The enhancement’s I did on this Project taught me a lot more about C++. Before this, my C++ wasn’t that good. Although it still isn’t the best, I feel like it increased my skill to a much more acceptable level. This was primarily because a lot of the challenges I faced were specific to how C++ works. One of them, for example, was because I hadn’t specified the class name when declaring a function, so it didn’t know which header file to pull it from.
[Here](Final.zip) is the files.

## Database: Python website
This project is a website backend which utilizes Python. It was created a few months ago as my CS-340 final. The reason that this shows proficiency in databases is because this website utilizes a MongoDB database in order to store the data. Because of that, this Python project has a lot of code for accessing a Mongo database. As this is the main class where I wrote code for databases at SNHU, I felt that this was the best example for showing of my database skills. As for improvements, I went over my previous code review and completed the changes that I found during that time. These changes include adding more comments to the code, fixing minor coding practice issues, and removing debug statements. The full change list is included at the bottom of the document. 
When I was enhancing this project, I think that it went a lot smoother than the previous ones. This is because I already had a very clear idea of the changes I wanted to make. This made the changes very easy to complete. The main challenge I had was my lack of familiarity with Python coding practices. That was decently easy to fix, however, as I was able to google any questions I had on the subject.
[Here](Milestone4.zip) is the result.
